Bootstrap Curriculum

Who is this for?
For anyone curious about programming
For anyone looking to express themselves in new medium

What are the end goals?
Students feel confident to break things
Students are excited (instead of scared) to learn new tools, features, libraries and languages
Students know they have the support of a huge community, and how to tap into that support
Students always think 'I can do this' even if they don't know exactly how

How?
Show inspiration of what can be done with programming, to open possibilities
 *  Probably youtube, but more ideally actual running programs
Start by disarming students fears by playing a game without computers
 *  Avoid questions like 'what do you want to do'  because students will probably be unsure of what they can do
Pick an environment that is easy to setup, has a limited vocabulary, and immediate visual feedback

Resources and Inspiration
Johan did a class where day 1 there was no computers. Instead students played a game where that had to pass commands to each other on pieces of paper, and no ambiguity remained. For example, "Start walking straight. When you see a rock, turn 90 degrees and continue".
   * this is kind of like programming walks, algorithmic walking. very interested in this .

Theory of Learning
Alan Kay on Learning 
Inner Game of Tennis 
Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain 
Thank you master Remin Documentation on a class that got students excited and making projects in just 2 days

Tools
Blocks, an environment for quickly distributing templates, and running html+js+css in the browser
Github for Education
 * im really into this too.

Feedback from friends
Showing people 3 different tools / 3 different ways to do the same thing so that they are less scared to learn new tools
 *    "Can you program?" "I only know javascript" << KILL THIS THINKING


How to inspire in 1 hour
suggestion
pls take some time to read literary journal, and see how you can explain, inspire programming, hacking to writers and poets. and vice versa.. as a programmer, what about poetics and aesthetics are you intrigued by? maybe you can get that nailed down, and use as a hook to get more people excited creatively. 
http://canopycanopycanopy.com/
http://nplusonemag.com/ 

for two weeks program, we might divide 10 days into 3 sessions, between me, zach and new teachers. what would you rather do: 3 consecutive days, or 4 days over the two weeks period?
 * I'd like to ask the rest of the school which is more interesting - a 3 day intensive where we go from no programming to something interactive
 * Versus 4 days where people really get to push their progress as they overall have a better understanding of programming
 * I  feel like SFPC first class liked sticking with one mode of thought for a short time rather than context-switching, so I am leaning towards a 3-day
 * I would love to be available to advise throughout those two weeks



