SFPC _ SCHOOL OF MA/ OFCOUSE

When we started School for poetic computation, we thought it can be a school for future teachers.  When alumni from our first class reached out about starting their own unique programs to support new communities, we were delighted and tried to support them through consultation and guidance. In this blog post, we asked Rachel Uwa and Paul Chang about their programs and how SFPC experience has influenced their thinking about teaching and learning.  

School of MA, organized by Rachel Uwa in Berlin, is a space for "imaginative and non-sensical exploration of art and technology." She recently finished organizing 5 weeks program on 'Responsive space' and is getting ready for 'Let's get physical!' in August.  OF COURSE, organized by Peng Chang in New York, is a 6 weeks program with 12 in depth classes on creative coding. Both programs are run by artists and hackers for a small group of 10 to 15 students.  
 

* 1. What inspired you to start your own program?

Rachel: I kept feeling something was missing. Too many people starting projects and not finishing them.  engaging in a workshop and disengaging afterwards. I thought a new form of immersion could be a better way. When i was looking to engage with interactive technology myself i got into ITP camp and SFPC- which were each a month to several months in duration-- immediately i knew for sure i wanted to do create a more long-term program.

Paul:  I had my very first teaching experience in SPFC. I taught an iOS game workshop to other SFPC classmates. I felt really good after teaching, and I started believing that if I could teach, everyone could teach. 

I started openFrameworks Workshop on April 2014. It is a small group of OF enthusiasts work closely to learn openFrameworks---focusing especially on helping openFrameworks beginners to use this amazing tool. It's a open group, it welcomes everyone to join it. OF workshop hit 100 people milestone within one month, and it's still growing very fast. The workshop is ran by different teachers every time. These teachers are not professional teacher. They are all coming to teach OF workshop because their goal is to enrich our local OF community and spread the joy of OF.

OF COURSE is a creative program and will start in August 19th. The idea of OF Course is to find new way of teaching and learning creative coding outside of the ridiculously expensive university system.  I used to sit in some classes in Parsons School for Design, because I didn't want to pay for the credits. I consider myself lucky because I can afford the expensive tuition of the school and these faculties were nice and allowed to do that. But, there are still many many people don't have money to pay for their tuitions!

Open source creative coding tools such as OF or P5 need more people to contribute. Colleges can teach some people, but there should be another way for other people who are working or freelancing to learn open source tools. When we get a lot of new ways of teaching and learning outside of university, the open source community will be really grow up.

I appreciate SFPC opening my mind and giving me inspirations to start own program. 

2. What aspect of your experience at SFPC affected the way you designed and run the program?

Rachel: One thing I keep trying to get a fair grasp on is the answer to the question, “how do people learn?” what works for one person doesn’t for another. Finding balance is key. We got to experience several different formats at SFPC-- weekly lecture, guest lecturer, artist talk, etc-- each invaluable in its own way! what I’m continuing to work towards is a deep understanding of how to balance it all into an optimal learning environment for people with their own unique needs and learning styles. 

Paul: In SFPC, there was a culture to let student to share their special skills to peers. That totally affected me to designed and run my program. In OF workshop, we invite our peers to teach each other.  There is no teachers, because everyone is teacher!  

Confucius said:"In a group of three people, there is always something I can learn from. Choose to follow the strengths of others, use the shortcomings to reflect upon ourselves." I think this is what SFPC taught me exactly.

3. What is the most difficulty you have now with the program?

Rachel: Interestingly, it’s quite the opposite situation to SFPC. SFPC was born to provide an alternative to the $30,000+/yr. tuition of many Art&Tech based programs. In comparison, most students pay little to nothing to attend german universities. In fact, I believe it might be the same for most Europeans in general. In such a case, €1250 for a one month intensive course would seem like a lot of money! 

As far as I understand, the main goal of a University here is to teach students to learn on their own.  There’s a lot to be desired curriculum-wise as far as what’s on offer.

School of MA could be an amazing supplement to the education system here but part of the work aside from spreading the word about it will be to help get people to understand the value of what we’re actually offering. The fact that you’re paying to learn with an amazing group of artists working successfully in the field for a full-month alongside a new community of people eager to help each other get where they want to go-- as far as experimenting with concepts and learning new tools-- is priceless! Anyway, I'm thinking of it as an interesting puzzle to solve. 

Paul: OF workshop is growing very quickly, but the problem is even through we get new people to joining us every time, many previous participants don't return.  

To keep inspiring people to study hard is very difficult, especially in a open workshop like us. People could be interested in something immediately, but people also would lose the interest very soon. However, how to keep our participants study OF sustainedly become a problem in OF workshop. 

What is the answer of giving our participants with fuel for studying OF? OF COURSE is a experiment to find the answer. OF COURSE has 12 major classes which provide an array of skills to ensure our participants to keep studying. On the other hand, OF COURSE is like a gym, we will give participants homework and ask them to show these their work in the class. Participants will find the true love from making and creating their own projects. This is very import: love what you are learning.


*
4. What kind of new community are you able to create through the program. 

Rachel: What’s lovely about longer term programs is the wonderful sense of closeness you get to. The point where you have a vision and want to create something specific can be very humbling when you realise you have a very limited idea how to go about it. It’s a vulnerable position to say you don’t know what you’re doing and to ask for help but these are the moments when the best of people come out. We were lucky with the first program to have an amazing bunch of giving people from many different cultures come together, mostly from Europe but also other far off places like India and New Zealand. Berlin is, in a way, a perfect location for this program because for the most part it’s still quite an affordable city and there are always interesting events going on, sometimes too many. Add to that an opportunity to work with an amazing group of likeminded people-- win/win!

Paul: I am not creating a new community. Instead, I am making new blood for OF community.

I am extending the OF community from high educated people to everyone. OF COURSE is experimenting new ways of teaching and learning creative coding outside of the ridiculously expensive university system. 

I am making people help each others to share their skills. OF workshop's teachers are all none professional teachers. lord knows just another 10 people teaching and sharing their codes in the community would inspire hundreds of people. When we get a lot of new ways of teaching and learning outside of university, the OF community will be really grown up. 
*
*

