sfpc special events

Oct 3 Welcome event
or Oct 1 - amit can come / oct 3 can Allison come? 
SFPC Alumni, past teachers and guests only
org: sfpc team 

Oct sometime 
NYU MCC media studies 


Oct 19 ELO, Wordhack  

org: Taeyoon, Todd Anderson 

SFPC event co-sponsored by WordHack and ELOunge
 * Jhave: 20 min
 * Archiverse: 10 min
 * Third performer chosen by Todd: 10 min
 * open projector: 40 min

open to the public

" Although my current responsibilities as an associate professor in media, communication and digital humanities at the New Jersey Institute of Technology make it difficult to join your classes now, I actually look forward to taking the time and participating as a student for a term sometime in the near future. Most of my research is in computation and writing, specifically the electronic literary arts, and remains directed in many ways by the Electronic Literature Organisation (ELO). The ELO works particularly with authors of all genres and literary aims, who remain interested in publishing and engaging with electronic or digital formats in media. Their Website is at eliterature.org.

It's been recently brought to my attention that the digital poet Jhave Johnson, formerly based in Montreal, but now working in Hong Kong, will be visiting NYC in October soon after your Fall 2014 term begins. His interest here is to hold a very informal ELO "salon gathering" around the third or fourth week of that month. I think his work would prove to be very interesting to your students and teachers working together this fall. I'm confident he would find your institute incredibly stimulating. Plus I think any opportunity to bring the ELO and SFPC together for an afternoon/evening would no doubt produce a stellar set of conversations and debates. You can see at this Website some of the work he is best known for: http://glia.ca/about.html."

Oct 25 Fundraiser workshop
can be other dates. one weekend event to raise $$$ for the fall term. 

Oct 27 IHEAP + SFPC  CUNY graduate center

org: Taeyoon, Michael Maniberg 

> The event aims to serve as a mise-en-relation between the Institut des hautes études en arts plastiques (Iheap) of Paris, and the School for Poetic Computation of New York City, both “schools” which operate at the educational periphery. The session will consist of a series of reciprocal presentations: commenced by introductions of the history, context and mission of each program, followed by students’ articulation of their own practices and projects, and concluded as a broad discussion. We estimate that roughly 12-15 from Iheap, 10 from SPC, and 10 from CUNY, will be present. 
>

November 7 NYU ITP + SFPC

org: Taeyoon, Midori (ITP)

> "One idea is to have open mic, open projector event where folks can show their work, give a short presentation or performance. Sometime early November might be good timing." 
 
 November 22~23 SFPC at The Silent Barn
 
org: Taeyoon, Alexandria (Silent Barn), Kunal 

> workshop, experience for youth in Bushwick. part of taeyoon class, or SFPC mid-semester presentation. can be elements for adults and general public. 

"We are holding 11a - 7p, 11/22 & 11/23 on the calendar, for now. "

December 12 Farewell 

private party or open event.
nothing big and public
more for students and alumni
can be at Thoughtworks in Flat iron district, or former third ward building in Bushwick. thinking about accessibility: wheel chairs and etc.  

contact 
Andrew Mcwilliams 
"It mentions bring thrifty and keeping costs down with sponsorships etc. When you do your next round, let me know because maybe I can talk to ThoughtWorks about sponsorship.

Also, we have a nice space for up to around 60 people in flatiron, for presentations / workshops. And I could connect you to Livestream in Brooklyn who have a very nice presentation / installation space at the old Third Ward location in Williamsburg. They are looking for arts/tech crossover community events." 

