SFPC: The First Class — Exhibition Texts

 * Andy Clymer

Originally from Southern California, Andy Clymer has been living and working in New York City as a Senior Type Designer and Developer at the Hoefler & Frere-Jones type foundry for the last eight years. While studying in the Type & Media postgraduate course at the Koninklijke Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Royal Academy of Art) in The Hague, The Netherlands, Andy became increasingly drawn to the notion that type designers have had for centuries of building one’s own tools for the job — mechanical bits and pieces, historically, and now bits and pieces of software. Most recently, Andy has been teaching this approach to design in the Type@Cooper postgraduate program at the Cooper Union in New York City and to undergraduate type design students at the University of Arts in Philadelphia.

Insecurity Camera
camera and microcontroller

The Insecurity Camera is a security camera who looks the other way. On a day-to-day basis we can’t avoid the gaze of security cameras and closed-circuit television monitoring us, but the Insecurity Camera doesn’t want to watch what we’re doing. It’s just as uncomfortable with you looking at it as you probably are of it looking at you. 

The camera uses an application written using the openFrameworks C++ code library, running on a Raspberry Pi computer, to detect motion within its field of view. When people are gone and no motion is present it goes about its business of surveying the area as any good camera should, but as soon as motion is detected and the camera is startled, a signal is sent to an Arduino microcontroller which then finds the best path to retreat away from view, and performs the movement by controlling two servo motors for pan and tilt movement.


 * Claire Lin

Claire Lin is a New York-based designer working in interactive media. She is interested in creating experiences and interactions that live at the cross-section of digital media and physical space. Most recently, she comes from Studio Rodrigo where she designed web and mobile products for clients like Bedrocket, MTV and This American Life. Previously, she has worked with the LAB at Rockwell Group, Project Projects, as well as Local Projects, where she helped design and create interactive environments for museums and public spaces. She holds a B.F.A. in Graphic Design from School of Visual Arts.


Paradise (Making It Rain)
plastic hand, dollar bills, 3D prints, stepper motor, arduino


 * Ishac Bertran

Ishac Bertran is an engineer and designer from Barcelona. He is interested in technology, design and art, and how those disciplines feed our culture. Ishac holds an MA in Mechanical Engineering, and graduated from Copenhagen Institute of Interaction Design, where he was also involved as faculty and thesis advisor. He first worked as an R&D engineer in Hewlett-Packard, and later in innovation consultancies for clients such as Toyota or Nestlé. Last year he moved to NYC, where he has done design work for Google, fifty-three and B-Reel. In parallel, Ishac works on self-driven projects, exploring combinations of technologies, processes and materials. He has recently done experiments in computer-generated photography, fictional forms of interaction and self-published a poetry book written in code. His work has received international recognition (IxDA, Core77 awards) and has been featured in numerous exhibitions and publications (Lift, Salone Internazionale del Mobile, Wired, Fast Company, Make). Ishac is always curious about new forms of creative expression and new methods for education—these are just a few reasons why he joined SFPC.

A minute within
processing, print

Participants are asked to tap a button every second throughout a minute, using their own perception of time as reference.  Timestamps are visualised on a ‘soft’ clock, warping the time intervals based on the participant’s input.  The color palette is taken from leaves picked under the same tree during fall. The diversity of colors suggests that each leaf follows a different scale of time, or perhaps a different pace of living.        

Two lines, Series I
processing print

A collection of a thousand images have been computer generated by establishing a set of rules that define the behavior of two lines and the way they interact with each other.

By selecting and arranging different snapshots in space, stories start to emerge.


 * Jon Wohl

Jonathan Wohl is a multidisciplinary artist based in Queens, NY. With an eclectic background in woodworking, video and sound design, the natural sciences, and software development, his work falls at the intersection between art, technology, and social commentary. He has built musical instruments and sonic sculptures, collaborated with dancers and filmmakers, and created politically-themed video games. A recent fascination has been the performative nature of corporate culture. Jonathan studied the ephemeral arts and physics at the University of Wisconsin, and is a founding member of The Notion Collective, a group of four collaborating artists currently working in New York City. He has been involved in Farmwork, an art/life practice focused on living holistically and creatively, and is a semi-regular attendee of the yearly Summerwork workshop/retreat.


 * Ishac Bertran / Jon Wohl

Talking

Talking investigates the mechanics of experience, expression and communication. Using computer-vision techniques to design a single-sense computing device, we develop a framework for thinking about the processes involved in perception and interaction.  By constraining our system to vision alone we are better able to deconstruct the input-[perception/synthesis/reaction]-output routine by which our own minds traverse the world.

Two identical devices, consisting of camera, computer, and screen, are positioned facing one another, allowing each to ‘see’ the other. The devices calibrate, detecting one another’s presence, and focusing attention only on the other’s screen. Once calibrated, communication begins.

Through a selection of actions and reactions, the devices interpret and respond to one another solely via the camera and the screen.  The sequential pairs of device states each embody a unique non-verbal gesture, attitude, or emotion — e.g. meeting, waiting, transacting, play, competition, aggression, boredom, mimicry, impatience.


 * Jesse Wolpert

Jessica Wolpert makes things; she is interested in smudging the boundaries between traditional craft and the binary arts. She has worked as a translator, jeweler, plumber, teacher and spent 6 long years in a merchant bank. Jesse is currently working on a series of video interactions playing with the concept of privacy and secret worlds; modern day peep shows whose characters observe you right back She is the founder of No Voyeurs events that require active participation and will not allow you to just sit back and watch: house galleries, film festivals, performance art and walks galvanizing local engagement and collaboration. If Jesse could eat one last meal on earth, it would be toast.


Relics of the 21st Century  
plaster and sand

Relics of the 21st Century is a sculpture of two hands frozen in an “iPhone holding shape.” The hands are embedded in sand as if excavated from an archaeological dig. It was inspired by watching people holding their phones in a very personal way and contorting their hands into specific “iPhone shape.” It is the first in a series of sculptures exploring the current physical relationship between people and their machines.


Juggling the Invisible World
video

Juggling the invisible world represents the first in a series of experiments to create a technological circus. The juggler plays with an invisible world that only becomes visible through a screen. The juggler’s hands are tracked with a kinect camera and their velocity controls the path of the imaginary ball that is then viewed through the window of the screen above.

This projects plays with the idea of the screen being the only way to really see what is happening in the world—and everything else is illusory.


Analogue Generative Wax Drawing
candle, motor, arduino, potentiometor, plexiglass

This wax sculpture investigates the idea of a collaborative drawing tool—a collaboration between a motor, a candle and a human hand. A candle is mounted on a motor and the speed is controlled via a potentiometer.  The wax is gradually flicked onto the surface surrounding the candle and results in a heavily textured wax drawing.


True Feeling Indicator
servo motor, arduino, wood, paper

There is often a mismatch between how people appear to feel and how they really feel. This true feeling indicator is worn on the head and controlled via a set of hand held buttons. The wearer is able to move the indicator wheel to show how she is really feeling in order to allow the people around her access to her internal world – leading to a greater understanding of another human being.


Pillowtop and Mirrortop
mac laptops, mirror, fabric

These two converted laptops are a comic take on the way personal computers have become an extension of our personal lives. The laptop as a pillow – a place of rest and sleep and dreaming. The laptop as mirror – reflecting our position in the world and our intimate relationship with our machines.        
Jesse Wolpert


In Bed with Mac
printed photographs

Self portraits of the class and teachers at SFPC in bed with their laptops. 


Powerbells
powerbooks, steel bar

Test your processing power!


 * Jonathan Dahan

Jonathan Dahan is a hacker of computation machinations, interactive experiences, and electroacoustics. He likes exploring the boundaries of private and public space, and generally causing (mostly harmless) chaos in an attempt to cause a fracture in people’s otherwise regular days. Currently working in the Media Lab at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, he helps to empower modern artists to work on their craft, and explore cultural heritage.


echo.cvs
acrylic on canvas, pixels on bmp

I made a program in a language called Piet. Piet is an interesting programming language, because the source code is in pixels, not words.

The program I made works like echo, when you type in a string, it spits the same string out.

I painted the program, and made a GIF of the interpreter (actually, the direction pointer) of a normal run of the program.


Server Room Music
sound, web browser

When a simple website is loaded, our software is designed to hide the massive, complex activity that happens.

I’m interested in software that exposes the cacophony, adding weight to what is normally passive interaction.


 * Le Wei

Le studied computer science and human-computer interaction at Carnegie Mellon, and is currently working on web frontend for Google+. She spent most of her life in the baby-small state of Delaware but has also lived in Chicago, Pittsburgh, London, and now San Francisco. She enjoys learning how to make things, both physical and digital. Here is the silliest project she’s worked on this year.


Every Text
processing, printer

Every Text is a visualization of text message activity from select SFPC students. Each image contains every text sent in the lifetime of the student’s phone, represented as a dot in the grid. Dots are colored and initialed according to the person on the other end of the line, and outlined or filled dots indicate messages sent or received. Viewed up close, you are able to track brief moments of the student’s texting life. More interestingly, you can look at the whole picture and use your instinct as a data analysis tool, looking for friendships ebbing and waning, favorite people and ex-favorite people, and social life altering events.


Speechometer
arduino

The Speechometer is like a pedometer, but for your voice. It is made of a microphone, arduino, and number display. The Speechometer user will wear the microphone throughout the day, and pin their speech count display to their clothes. Passers by could immediately see whether the wearer had gotten much social interaction, and maybe be motivated to engage them in conversation to get their count up. It could also be, for strangers, an indicator of the general talkativeness of a person. If there are multiple wearers speaking to each other, an outsider can peer in to see if one person is dominating the conversation.


Generative Calligraphy / Reclaiming Repetition
openframeworks, paper, brass, plexiglass

In the words of the infamous Amit Pitaru, “nothing is ever really simplified; complexity is just deferred.” Similarly, in recent history many repetitive tasks have been deferred from humans to computers, leaving humans to play designer and mastermind. In this case, the computer played a role in generating the calligraphy inspired forms and ended its role there. In order to bring the forms into the physical world, I deferred the repetition back onto myself, and performed a variety of menial tasks 16, 32, 64 times. Now I can safely say that I know what it feels like to be a computer.


 * Mini Kim

While exploring diverse career paths, Mini Kim fell in love with data visualization. During her free time she would spend hours making sense of the data being created around her. She hopes that her interest in data can ultimately result in impactful work. Mini has just finished a year of the Interaction Design MFA program at the School of Visual Arts. She is taking a year off from the program to work at the UNICEF Innovation Unit and to explore her personal interest in art and coding. At UNICEF, Mini works on data visualization and system projects and got to travel to Senegal and Lebanon this summer. Now at the School for Poetic Computation, she is looking forward to exploring new ways to express herself through data visualization and become a part of an artistic community. She is ready to learn from others, expand her thoughts and share her knowledge.


Hacking Hangeul (Korean alphabet)
openframeworks

Play with a Korean written language called Hangeul by assigning your own sound to each symbol.


 * Motoi Shimizu

Motoi Shimizu is a Tokyo-based developer who works with code, primarily openFrameworks and web-based interactivity. After several years of a career as a web front-end engineer, he graduated from the Dynamic Sensory Programming course at the International Academy of Media Arts and Science. in the Winter semester of 2010 he studied Interface Culture in Austria at Kunstuniversität Linz. Since 2010 he has been writing code to create playful interactivity and real-world oriented networking.


Screenshots every day

These are the screenshots which I took every day while writing code. Every screenshot is related to my questions on programming for graphics. These screenshots, questions, and notebooks represent my process of studying.


Google search by image every day

This video consists of a movie of one day at SFPC, and the similar images of every frame suggested by Google’s image search algorithm. My question was, “How long does Google take to find the identical image for every frame?”. 

I uploaded all of theoriginal frames and then ran a script every day from Oct 20, 2013 on in order to generate a new video by retrieving images via Google’s search algorithm. 

The video displayed at left is composed of the original photos, and the video on the right is created from the similar images retrieved via Google’s search algorithm. In a similar way — the left hand side of the poster shows the original images and the right hand side shows the similar images from the search result. (So far no correct original image has been retrieved by the Google search algorithm!)


 * Peng Cheng 

Peng Cheng is a Chinese artist who works with a variety of media, including game, toy, electronics, digital media, and installation. Paul received his bachelor’s degree from Raffles Design Institute in Shanghai. In 2007, Paul joined what was then a start-up company Tudou, designing ads and website content. In 2007 he was awarded “Best Employee at Tudou.”  To pursue his interest in the interdisciplinary art and cross-cultural experience, Peng is currently completing his Graduate Degree in the Design and Technology Department at Parsons School for Design. He is focusing on the use of new computer technology to explore comparative cultural study through visual media.


Haze霾

Haze霾 is a wearable air quality detector, which is a strong appeal for people to pay attention to issues of air pollution, a very serious issue facing China today. 

The Beijing government issued the first orange alert January 14th, 2013.  At that time, Beijing had 24 days with heavy pollution weather. “Levels of PM2.5 particles are above 200 micrograms per cubic meter in most urban areas of the capital (that’s way above safety levels). Many areas have a level 5 ‘heavy pollution’ warning, with some places at level 6, the highest pollution level,” state-run Xinhua news agency reported. 

Hazeإ‮٥‬ encourages people to rethink the air pollution crises through a visual  performance, as an actor wears the device to detect the air quality around the city, turning the air quality itself into the key communication with which to engage people in critical discussion.

*
http://vimeo.com/80093233


 * Simona De Rosa

Simona is a designer, observer, researcher and strategist born in south of Italy, now living and working in Berlin at Nokia (HERE Maps). In 2007, she studied Design at Polytechnic of Milan. In 2009, deeply curious and attracted by the “Next Billion People,” she moved to China to pursue a double masters degree in Design & Innovation at Tongji University, Shanghai. Last May, she took part to The Art of Data-Based Visual Narratives with Nicholas Felton, where she had a revealing glimpse of the importance of code: it allows one to deal with (big)data sets that go beyond what we can see with normal eyes. Realizing that coding is not only about data representation, but it actually teaches you how to think!


TASTED [intersecting Flavors]
performance 
(at 33 Flatbush Ave. November 17, 2013)

Tasted is a project that investigates the way we taste food and its flavor.  Nowadays it is possible to identify a product’s flavor profile through gas chromatography.  Starting from a data set of 1000+ ingredients and their flavor compound profiles, Tasted combines ingredients in pairs resulting in over a million combinations. Looking for intersections of compounds between ingredients, food pairs are mapped from most similar to most dissimilar. Tasted suggests a way to look at food and flavors through science.

Full project documentation:
http://www.simona-derosa.com/works/#/tasted/
Independent link to video: https://vimeo.com/81323601

 * Tega Brain

Tega Brain is an artist, environmental engineer and educator from Sydney, Australia. With qualifications in both art and environmental engineering, her practice explores science, ecology and engineering in the Anthoposcene. She creates site-specific installations, disfunctional devices, experimental infrastructures, speculative services and information visualisations (sometimes using underpants). She teaches courses in art, design and engineering in universities in Sydney and is in the USA as a recipient of an Australia Council for the Arts early career artist fellowship.

Weather Instrument #1 (15 bit computer)
paper, wood, electronics

This is the first study for a series of works that will explore ways in which data gathered from weather systems might be conveyed and performed. Scientific instruments sample, reduce and translate complex systems, yet they are not typically designed to publicly perform their activities. This project investigates how these computationally driven processes can be explored through performance and physical materials.

Taking the form of what is essentially a hand made 15 bit computer, this machine reads temperature data for the New York area and then maps and punches it onto a narrow strip of paper. This paper is then fed through a small music player, becoming the software for its operation. Can weather be thought of as a sort of software? This work explores concepts of instrumentation and computational resolution.

 * Jonathan Dahan and Motoi Shimizu 

Text lighter

We are making a drawing machine using an XY plotter + LED + long exposure photos. The idea came from writing shader code for lighting. We want to experiment with the idea that real LED lighting effects would be more interesting and beautiful than those created by a machine.


 * Rachel Uwa

Rachel is an artist and organiser working with diverse tech communities in Europe to create educational opportunities for those interested in learning to make and to code. Her background is in audio engineering and visual effects and for her the logical next step is moving into programming apps and interactive installation work to make visual effects happen “in the real world”. Having previously worked with social justice groups, she feels compelled to help make the tech world less daunting and more diverse and inclusive. Among other projects, she is currently working closely with groups such as OpenTechSchool in Berlin, Germany, where she resides, to realise their next dream: creating a hacker school! Stay tuned.


 * Moises Sanabria

Born in Caracas, Venezuela, Moises Sanabriais an artist interested in technology, internet culture and contemporary branding. He is one of the co-founders of the new media collectiveArt404 (Art Not Found), whose works often deal with legitimacy, value, and perception. Art404 often uses the online world as a medium for creating works, including projects involving Photoshop, the hacker group Anonymous, and the Sims. Art404 has shown at Transmediale 2k+12 in Berlin, Gucci Vuitton in Miami, Ars Electronica Festival in Austria & Conflux Festival in NYC. Moises is currently attending the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, where he is focusing on Interactive 3D graphics and physical computing. He lives and works in New York City.


 * Jason Levine

Jason Levine is a musician, performer, and creative coder. On a mission to bridge different artistic disciplines, he sees computation as a universal language for translating and communicating between different mediums. Inspired by improvisation, Jason focuses on the interactive and generative qualities of coding to create real-time software systems for live performance. He is currently on an experimental binge creating music with genetic algorithms, rearranging the pixels of famous images, putting dancers into generative worlds, and creating a body-controlled interactive music creation system. Jason has worked extensively as a beatboxer/vocalist accompanying circus shows, street theatre, and contemporary dance. Most recently, Jason has worked as a freelance creative coder, designing interactive visuals for Eryc Taylor Dance, generative art apps for Fragile Tension LLC, and prototyping Kinect interactions for Harmonix’s new game Fantasia:Music Evolved.

